(tranquil music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
I am sorry to be late.
No worries. Here.
Your Opsadda.
Thank you.
(sighs)
Everything all right?
There are days when
I would rather
confront a fleet of Krill
battle cruisers,
than parent a child.
What's going on?
I believe Topa is infatuated
with a male.
Oh, she's got a crush on a boy.
Yes. I have questioned her,
but she refuses to discuss
the details of the matter.
She frequently locks
herself in her room,
and does not emerge for hours.
Girls can be shy about this
kind of thing, Bortus,
especially with their fathers.
Why?
Well, it can feel
a little embarrassing at times.
Or, at least very personal.
Klyden was more adept
at speaking with Topa
regarding personal matters.
It has been difficult
now that he is gone.
Maybe Topa would be
more comfortable
talking with another female.
Then you will speak to her.
Thank you.
Wait, wait, wait, hold on!
Me?
Topa holds you in the
highest regard, Commander.
She considers you a mentor.
I'll see what I can do.
(door chimes)
Not now, Papa!
-(door chimes)
-What?
Commander Grayson.
It's okay, you don't
have to get up.
Can I come in?
Yes, of course.
I'm running a new
tactical simulation tomorrow.
Atmospheric Combat.
And, I thought you might like
to come along,
maybe even make a jump or two.
That... would be very
exciting, sir. Thank you.
-Simulator two, 1800 hours.
-I will be there.
You know, Topa...
it's been a really
overwhelming year for you.
And, you have handled it all
with a poise and a hardiness
that some people
twice your age wouldn't.
But, I want you to know...
you don't have to do it alone.
You can always talk to me about
anything that's on your mind.
Life... school...
boys... girls...
How do you know if
a boy likes you?
Well...
sometimes it's not
so easy to tell.
Guys don't always express
their feelings.
Is there someone that you like?
Yes.
And, have you told this person
how you feel?
I have not.
Why?
What if he does not
like me in return?
Hm. That's always
a possibility.
What is it you like about him?
He is funny.
He is warm.
We share many interests.
Well, then I'd say there's
a pretty good chance
he might like you back.
You're a very special girl.
If I were you, I'd tell
him how you feel.
(tranquil music playing)
My mom's like, "Why don't you
get him a job on the Orville?"
And I'm like, "Why should I
go out on a limb for this guy
just because you dropped
the ball when we were kids?"
I mean, he is your brother.
LT. GORDON MALLOY: Yeah, but
he's a drunken screw-up.
And I don't wanna put my ass
on the line
if he's gonna make me
look like a schmuck.
Oh, hey, Topa.
Oh, hey, Topa, how are ya?
Good. How are you?
No complaints.
What's goin' on?
I would like to...
I would like to ask
you if perhaps
we could eat a meal together.
Sometime.
Oh, sure. What's up?
You need advice on something?
No. I...
Is everything okay?
I think of you often.
I like you.
Well, I like you too.
-You do?
-Sure, why wouldn't I?
TOPA: I enjoy spending
time with you.
You are a male, and
yet you possess
many prominent female traits,
which I find appealing.
Oh.
Could we... have dinner?
-Ohhhhh.
-Yeah, there ya go, Sherlock.
You know, um...
Topa, I think you're
an amazing person.
And, um...
You're like... you're like
the little sister I never had.
Sister?
Yeah. Like family.
I'm always here for you,
and if you ever have a problem,
or something doesn't
go your way,
you know that I'll always
have your back.
Thank you.
I... should go now
or I will be late for school.
Good, good.
No, school's important.
Learn-- Learn a lot!
Hey, you know she's
way too mature for you, right?
Not listening, not laughing.
I think it's cute.
You're an attractive
guy, she sees it.
End of conversation, later.
He's attractive, right?
Eh, looks better goin'
than comin'.
It's been almost a year
since the Union
granted protective
status to Heveena,
and her colony of
Moclan refugees.
Per the agreement,
the Union Council
and the Moclan government
are each entitled to conduct
an annual inspection
of the colony,
to make sure both sides
are abiding by its terms.
Due to the Orville's history
and familiarity
with the colony,
I've assigned Commanders
Grayson and Bortus
to represent the Union.
What are we looking for exactly?
Any sign of interference
from the Moclan authorities--
threats, harassment,
surveillance,
any act of aggression,
no matter how small,
that would violate
the agreement.
And, if I may ask,
who are the Moclans sending?
Their inspection
team will be led
by a high-ranking intelligence
officer,
Commander Kodon.
Keep in mind they still
regard Heveena
with a great deal of suspicion.
They'll be looking
for any indication
that she's broken her word
to stop smuggling
newborn females off Moclus.
When are we expected?
In two days. You'll
take a shuttle,
which will rendezvous with
one of their shuttles
in orbit of the colony.
Understood.
Captain, you're aware
of the tension that exists
between Moclus and the
rest of the Union right now.
They're our strongest ally
against the Kaylon threat,
so, we can't afford
to do anything
that might make things worse.
Do I make myself clear?
We'll be very careful, sir.
Report back as soon as you've
completed your inspection.
Halsey out.
You know this is
a diplomatic mission, right?
The Moclans will no doubt
bring weapons.
I've reviewed the inspection
protocols. Sidearms only.
Papa, is it true?
Are you going to visit
the sanctuary
where Heveena lives?
Yes.
May I please go with you?
I would love to meet her.
Commander Grayson and I
have important duties
to perform.
It would not be appropriate.
Please, Papa.
Topa...
there will be Moclans present
who are hostile to all females.
I would not subject you
to their ignorance and ridicule.
You know, Bortus, she's
never had a chance
to meet any other
Moclan females.
This could be a life-altering
experience for her.
I... do not know.
We'll look after her.
She'll be fine.
You do not need to
look after me.
I can take care of myself.
If the captain approves,
you may join us.
Thank you, Papa!
I love you!
But, you must be on
your best behavior,
and follow my instructions.
I will!
I am going to go pack!
(sighs)
(theme song playing)
(dramatic music playing)
It is so beautiful.
Scans show the Moclan shuttle
on the surface.
They were supposed to
meet us in orbit.
Remain here for the moment.
Commander Kodon.
That is correct.
I'm Commander Kelly Grayson,
and this is Lieutenant
Commander Bortus.
It was my understanding
that we were conducting
this inspection together.
We arrived earlier
than expected.
Rather than waste time,
we decided to proceed
with our survey.
It appears the colonists are in
compliance with the agreement.
You may begin your inspection.
Well, thank you
so much for your permission.
Have a safe trip home.
COMMANDER KODON:
We will remain here,
to ensure the Union
does not violate the agreement.
Fine.
But, stay out of our way.
Who is this?
My daughter.
No new females are permitted
in the colony!
It is a violation!
She is an observer.
She will return to the
Orville with us.
The agreement allows females
to be part of the survey team.
It doesn't specify the species.
Disgusting creature.
Bortus.
Let's go.
(children laughing)
(speaking Moclan language)
Commander Grayson, Bortus,
we are pleased you have
finally arrived!
Osaia. It's good to see you.
I hope Commander Kodon
behaved himself in our absence.
It is wise to behave oneself
when one is outnumbered.
He did so.
And, this must be Topa.
Hello.
It is a pleasure to meet you.
Come. Heveena is
waiting for you.
(Dolly Parton singing
"9 to 5" on speaker)
Heveena. Our visitors from the
Union have arrived.
(Heveena gasps)
Heveena.
Commander Grayson.
It's so good to see you again.
You too.
Commander Bortus.
Welcome.
Please forgive me. (laughs)
The voice of Dolly Parton
inspires me while I am writing.
(laughs)
-(sighs)
-(music stops)
What a joy it is to see
your faces again.
You seem well.
Ah, all things considered,
we have no complaints.
Our community is healthy
and safe.
This is my daughter, Topa.
I have read every one
of your books.
My favorite is
Mountain of Solitude.
It is an honor to be
in your presence.
I promise you, Topa,
the honor is mine.
Your story is an inspiration
to all.
You soldiered through the storm
of a repressive system
that smothered your identity...
and emerged into the sunlight
as the woman you were
meant to be.
I have seen you in simulations,
but...
I always wanted to meet
you in person.
Well, I hope the real me
won't disappoint you.
You have chosen a fine
time to arrive.
Tonight, there will be
a double full moon,
which means the luminites
will be swarming.
Luminites?
After your survey is complete,
please join us for
the evening meal.
And you can see them
for yourselves.
Can we, Papa?
We look forward to it.
With your permission,
we'd like to tour the grounds,
run some scans,
speak to some of the colonists.
Our community is open to you.
And, if Topa wishes,
she is welcome
to spend the afternoon with me.
I am sure we have much
to talk about.
That is most generous.
We'll see you soon.
Yes, Commander.
Osaia, please.
Come. Join me in
my writing nook.
I imagine you have
many questions.
That is... Dolly Parton.
HEVEENA: Yes.
Your captain opened my eyes
to her greatness.
She is a visionary.
Everyone in this colony derives
strength from her example.
I learned of her from
your newest book.
Ah.
We think of her
as the voice of the revolution.
I want to know everything
about your revolution.
Our revolution.
(slight chuckle)
And, I'm pleased to hear that.
I would also...
like to thank you.
For what?
For speaking on my behalf
at the tribunal,
when I was too young
to have a voice of my own.
Ah.
Your gratitude is misplaced.
I failed you.
No.
It just...
took a little longer.
(slight chuckle)
(soulful Moclan music playing)
Those are our visitors
from the Orville.
So, what do you think so far?
It is even more wonderful
than I imagined.
Can we stay longer?
The Orville is expecting us
in the morning.
But...
we will return someday.
Anyone seen our cheery
counterparts?
I believe they returned
to their shuttle this afternoon.
Well, that's some good news.
Could you pass the hot sauce?
You have the palate of a Moclan.
(chuckles) Side effect
of hanging with this guy.
Are you... mates?
What?
No, um, Bortus and I are
just friends. Colleagues.
We work together.
Papa, I want to go watch
the luminites.
Very well.
They're quite beautiful,
aren't they?
Yes, very.
They are red, yellow,
green, pink,
orange, and white.
And, every now and then,
you will see a blue one.
They are extremely rare,
but they bring very
good fortune.
Here.
What is it?
A gift for you.
We collect lava stones
from the beaches.
Over thousands of years,
the ocean waves polish
them smooth.
A clash of fire and
water, given time,
can produce great beauty.
(indistinct conversation)
You said that you wanted
to know more
about the story of
our revolution.
What if I told you...
that you could play
a very important role
in that story?
What do you mean?
Like the blue luminite,
you are also extremely
rare, Topa.
And, you are
in a very unique position
to help our cause.
How?
What I am about to tell you
must remain between us.
You cannot tell your father,
or Commander Grayson,
or anyone else.
If that makes you uncomfortable,
I understand.
We will say goodnight now
and always remain friends.
I want to help.
I will tell no one.
What is it?
We have reestablished
our underground network
to rescue female infants
from Moclus,
and bring them here to safety.
But... does that not violate
the agreement?
It does.
But... if Moclus found out...
They would destroy this colony.
Which is why our efforts here
and on Moclus
must be tightly coordinated.
We have no reliable way
of communicating
outside the nebula,
so all contact from those
wishing to flee Moclus
is being done by messengers.
It is slow and very inefficient.
If we had access to
a Union starship,
one with an advanced
communications array...
we could save so many
more females,
with greater speed.
But, we would need
someone on board,
who is loyal to our cause.
Someone like you, Topa.
What would I have to do?
It is very simple.
From time to time, you will
receive an encrypted message.
You will relay that message
to our contact on Moclus.
These messages will
be transmitted
on quantum frequencies
known only to you
and the others involved.
You would be protecting
the lives
of countless innocent females,
helpless infants,
as you once were.
Their story is your story.
I will help.
History will remember you
as a hero to your people.
Who must I contact?
(cheery Moclan music playing)
(indistinct conversation)
I have never believed in fate,
but I do believe we can forge
a common destiny.
Together we will accomplish
great things.
I will not disappoint you.
Thank you.
(buzzing)
(branch crackles)
-(ominous music playing)
-(birds screeching)
(Topa screaming)
Let me go!
(screaming)
No!
It is done.
(electronic whirring)
(energy pulsing)
HEVEENA: The book is
fictionalized account
of the rise of Beldus,
the ruler of the Movav continent
in the Seventh Age.
The characters are my own,
but the historical
events are real.
It sounds very interesting.
Mm.
Well, honestly, I can listen
to your stories all night,
but, we should probably
get back to the Orville.
Oh, of course. I understand.
Where is Topa?
Well, she was just...
watching the luminites.
Perhaps she returned
to my writing nook.
MOCLAN:
No, nothing yet.
COMMANDER KELLY GRAYSON:
Anything?
No. I have walked the
entire perimeter,
and checked the main hall.
Could she have wandered off
into the jungle?
She knows better than
to venture off
on her own in a strange place.
(searchers shouting "Topa!")
Topa!
Bortus!
Topa was wearing this.
(dramatic music rising)
We have searched everywhere.
Topa is no longer on the island.
The Moclan shuttle is gone.
They must have taken her.
-Why would they take Topa?
-I do not know.
There can be no other
explanation.
KELLY: Heveena, you were
the last one to see her.
Did she say anything at all
that might give us some answers?
Not that I can remember.
Um... We talked.
I gave her the necklace...
That was it.
We need to contact the Orville.
(intense music playing)
(electronics chirping)
What the hell...
Launch thrusters won't power up.
Someone has severed the
plasma injectors.
And, the communications array
has been disabled.
Son of a bitch.
I'm gonna reconfigure
the launch controls
to take off using
the main engine.
This could be a little rough.
(energy pulsing)
The array has been depolarized.
It will take several days
to repair the damage.
Topa may not have several days.
I'm tracking the ion trail
from the Moclan shuttle.
It's dispersing fast, but
there's still enough to follow.
We've got a choice:
head back to the Orville,
or try to find Topa ourselves.
All right.
Let's do it.
(dramatic music playing)
Where are you taking me?
Why am I here?
I don't understand.
My father will be worried.
Please let me contact him.
Do females always
talk this much?
You have no right
to keep me here.
I have done nothing wrong.
Listen to her mighty roar!
Shall we let her go
before she grows truly angry?
I want to talk to my father.
I want to go home.
(mocking): "I want to go home!"
Tell me, little worm,
were you this impotent before
they cut off your kla'fash?
Speak again and the next thing
you lose will be your tongue.
(epic music playing)
Any word?
We've hailed the shuttle on
multiple frequencies, sir.
No response.
Could the nebula be deflecting
our signals?
ISAAC: I have compensated for
all sources of interference.
Charly, set a course
for the colony.
Sir, if we go in there,
we'll be violating
the agreement.
I'm aware of that, Ensign.
Lay in the course.
Aye, sir.
Do you have any idea where
they might have taken
Topa, and why?
I wish I could tell
you, Captain.
Did they say or do anything
suspicious
before Kelly and Bortus arrived?
Other than act extremely
rude, no.
I'd like permission
to take a security team
down to the colony
to investigate.
We should also run some
DNA scans on that necklace,
see if we can find out
exactly who took her.
Do it. And keep trying to raise
Kelly and Bortus.
Aye, sir.
As captain of this ship,
it's my responsibility
to know about
everything that happens
on board.
It's a rare day when something
unexpected occurs,
and I don't have a clue
to the reason...
especially when it concerns
the safety
of my crew and their families.
As the leader of your colony,
I would expect that you
feel the same way.
Of course.
So, you can understand
why I find it
just a little hard to believe
that you have no inkling
about what happened to Topa.
No theory, no suspicion?
Not even a guess?
(sighs)
If we have any hope
of finding her,
we need to understand
why she was taken.
Now, I could be wrong, Heveena,
but I think you're holding back.
And, if I'm right,
I need to know,
because Topa's life
may depend on it.
There is more than one life
at stake here, Captain.
Thousands of lives hang
in the balance.
What do you mean?
(sighs)
I violated the terms
of the agreement.
Newborn females are once again
being relocated from Moclus.
I asked Topa to help
in our efforts, and she agreed.
Help how?
By acting as a link within
our communications network.
I shared critical information
with her.
Somehow, Commander Kodon
must have discovered this,
and taken her for questioning.
What exactly does Topa know?
The name of our primary contact
on Moclus,
and the quantum frequencies
that we use to encrypt messages.
(sighs)
What the hell were you thinking?
I beg your pardon?
How could you put her
in that position? She's a child!
She is also a victim
of Moclan bigotry!
I gave Topa the opportunity
to protect her own
life as a female,
and to protect
the lives of all the others!
It was her choice!
Oh, Jesus Christ, Heveena,
what the hell did you
expect her to say?!
She worships you!
She would do anything
to please you,
of course she's gonna say yes!
I am as concerned about Topa
as you are, Captain!
But, I do not regret
enlisting her help.
Our struggle for equality
has always demanded risk,
and, if necessary, sacrifice!
I respect your struggle.
I really do.
But, don't advertise tactical
opportunism as pious morality,
because that's when you lose me.
-(comscanner chirps)
-Mercer to bridge.
Get me Admiral Halsey.
(contemplative music playing)
The Moclan government is
denying any knowledge of
Topa's abduction
or her whereabouts.
We found traces of her blood
on the necklace,
along with DNA from
a Moclan male,
and it didn't come from
Commander Bortus,
or anyone in the colony.
I'm afraid that's all
circumstantial.
I'd like to question
Commander Kodon
and his inspection team,
and take samples of their DNA.
You know we can't do that
without probable cause.
We're on shaky ground
with their government as it is.
Yeah, you know, it seems
like we're always
on shaky ground with them,
doesn't it?
Always bending over backwards
to accommodate their bullshit.
Mind your tone, Captain.
I'm sorry, sir.
What do you suggest?
The best option is for Heveena
to testify before the
Union Council.
She would have to admit
she's been violating
the agreement,
and that she enlisted
Topa to help them
continue their illegal
operations.
That would demonstrate
a clear motive
for the Moclans to abduct Topa,
and we'd have cause to launch
a formal investigation
with all the power
of Union law behind us.
If I do as you ask,
the Moclan government
would not hesitate
to invade our colony
and arrest everyone in it.
We would do everything possible
to prevent that from happening.
I'm very sorry, Admiral.
But my answer is no.
Heveena--
You will not change
my mind, Captain.
And, if you do take this matter
before the Council,
I will deny everything.
It goes without saying
that I am
profoundly disappointed
in your decision.
I'll continue to work
the diplomatic channels.
If you hear from
Commander Grayson,
let me know immediately.
Yes, sir.
(contemplative music playing)
I'd like you to stay
on board the Orville,
until Commander Keyali
completes her investigation.
In case we have any
more questions.
If you insist.
(sighs)
(dramatic music playing)
The ion trail is dissipating.
I am extrapolating
their trajectory.
They appear to be on course
for the Zonari System,
six light-years away.
According to the database,
there is only one planet
in that system.
Uninhabited.
Then, that's where we're headed.
(door chimes)
Yes?
Commander.
What can I do for you?
The Captain has asked me
to escort you to Simulator One.
For what reason?
There's someone he
wants you to meet.
If you need anything,
I'll be right outside.
What is this place?
Oh, there you are! Welcome!
Come on in, don't be shy.
By the gods!
Oh, come on, don't
you bow to me.
I'm not all that.
I'm not even sure I'm all there.
I am so glad to finally
meet you, Heveena.
I have heard
so many good things about you.
No. You are not real.
This is an illusion.
And, I know what Captain Mercer
is trying to do.
Well, I have been programmed
from a whole mess of
historical records and data.
And, I might not be real,
but I'm still all Dolly.
(slight chuckle)
Oh, come on, sit,
take a load off.
I have been hearing
that you have just got
the weight of the world
on your shoulders, girl.
You wanna talk about it?
Because they tell me
that I'm a pretty good listener.
It is complicated.
Oh, what's gnawin' at you?
I put a young girl's
life in danger
to achieve a greater good.
I have been given a
chance to save her,
but to do so would put
many more female lives at risk.
Well, mm...
that is complicated.
(sighs)
Do you know where you
are right now?
No.
You're in the Smoky Mountains
of Tennessee.
I was born and raised in a cabin
pretty much like this one.
As a matter of fact,
your computer didn't
do a half-bad job.
(laughs)
I like to come out to this neck
of the woods every now and again
to kinda clear my head
and do some hard thinking.
I was also raised
in the mountains.
Another mountain girl!
I knew there was some
reason I liked you.
I lived there for
most of my life.
There are days when I
miss the solitude.
You know, when I was
a little girl,
maybe six or seven years old,
I accidentally cut
three of my toes
on a broken mason jar.
I mean they were cut bad,
almost falling off.
Course we lived miles
from the nearest doctor,
and we were real poor,
so my momma had to be
very resourceful.
So, you know what she did?
She used cornmeal to
stop the bleeding,
and she used kerosene
for antiseptic,
and she took her sewing needles,
and she sewed
my little toes back together.
(laughs)
Course my daddy and my brothers
all had to hold me down.
But, it worked, they healed,
and I'm still walking
around today,
on my little tippy toes.
(laughs)
I fail to grasp the meaning
of this parable.
Oh, it don't mean nothin'.
It's just a story.
I'll tell you one thing, though.
My momma knew something needed
to be done right then and there.
If you do the right thing
in the here and now,
the future has a way
of taking care of itself.
(laughs)
Well, at least
that's what my momma taught me.
(laughs)
Do you mind if I, uh,
play a little bit?
I would be honored.
I am a great admirer
of your poetry.
Oh, I'm not sure I'd
call it poetry.
It's just some songs,
but I like doing it. (chuckles)
(singing):
♪ I've chased after rainbows ♪
♪ I've captured one or two ♪
♪ I've reached for the stars ♪
♪ I've even held a few ♪
♪ I've walked that
lonesome valley ♪
♪ Topped the mountain ♪
♪ Soared the sky ♪
♪ I've laughed and
I have cried ♪
♪ But I have always tried ♪
♪ I've always been a dreamer ♪
♪ And dreams are
special things ♪
♪ But dreams are of no value ♪
♪ If they're not equipped
with wings ♪
♪ So secure yourself
for climbing ♪
♪ Make ready
for the flight... ♪
I will give my testimony
to the Council.
♪ You'll make it if you try ♪
♪ So try to be the first one ♪
♪ Up the mountain ♪
♪ And try to be the first ♪
♪ To touch the sky ♪
Set course for Earth.
♪ And try to be the one
to make a difference ♪
♪ Try to put your fear
and doubt aside ♪
♪ And try to make the most
of every moment ♪
♪ 'Cause if you never try
you never win ♪
♪ So try each day
to try a little harder ♪
♪ And if you fall
get up and try again ♪
♪ Try and try and try... ♪
(energy pulsing)
(ominous music playing)
(keypad beeps)
Do as you are told and
you might live.
DEEP MALE VOICE:
You must be exhausted.
Please sit down.
Are you thirsty?
Drink. It is only water.
Where am I?
I will be the one asking
the questions today.
And, my first question is this:
Why do you think you are here?
I do not know.
I believe you.
And, I can see that you
are frightened.
This must all be very
confusing for you.
So, I will tell you
why you are here.
And then, you will answer
my questions.
And, when we are finished,
you will be taken home.
You are a female outcast,
conspiring with other females
to undermine the moral
foundations of Moclan society.
Your leader, Heveena,
has been secretly communicating
with a traitor on Moclus.
We have reason to believe
that you know his identity.
Is this true?
I do not know what you
are talking about.
(sighs)
I will ask you once more.
What is the traitor's name?
(groans)
I prefer not to harm you.
But, I will.
Now, tell me his name.
(epic music playing)
LT. COMMANDER BORTUS:
This world is desolate.
Except... wait.
There are several structures
inside a large canyon.
I am detecting multiple
life signs, all Moclan.
Let's get a closer look.
Engage cloak.
There's no record
of this outpost
in the Union database.
I'm taking us down.
You know you disobeyed orders
by bringing these weapons.
Yes.
Well done.
Priority-one message
from Admiral Halsey:
the Council has convened and
they're awaiting your arrival.
Tell them we're on our way.
You have the bridge.
Permission to join you, Captain?
What for?
Topa's...
kinda like a little sister.
I have a personal investment
in her safety.
All right, come on.
HEVEENA:
I make this confession
not because I believe
what I have done is wrong,
but because a child
has gone missing.
I am doing what must be done
here and now,
no matter what the
future may hold,
and I stand ready to accept
whatever judgment this
Council renders.
I offer my confession
with the hope
and expectation that
this Council
will launch an immediate
investigation
into the whereabouts of Topa,
and work to secure
her safe return.
(delegates murmuring)
Based on Heveena's testimony,
and the physical evidence
provided
by the Orville's Chief
of Security,
this Council believes
there is sufficient basis
to begin a formal investigation.
We request that Commander Kodon
and his inspection team
appear before the Council
with all due haste.
And, what of her crimes?
She is the one who should
be investigated!
She makes the outrageous claim
that we have abducted a child,
when, in fact, she
admits to stealing infants,
and smuggling
them as contraband!
We have every intention
of addressing Heveena's actions,
but at the moment our priority
is the safe return of
the missing child,
and her guardians.
This Council has
no valid reason
to conduct an investigation
of my government or
any of my people!
You have no facts
and no evidence!
Only the word of an
admitted criminal.
The only fact presented
here today,
is that she violated
the agreement.
Arrest her!
Or, you are all complicit
in her crimes!
(delegates murmuring)
(dramatic music playing)
(comscanner chirps)
There is an entry point
2,000 meters ahead.
If we stay within the canyon,
we will remain out of sight
until we reach it.
Commander!
(Kelly groaning)
That was stupid.
Are you injured?
My shoulder.
(comscanner chirping)
You have torn a ligament.
It will heal shortly.
I'm sorry, Bortus.
It was an accident.
That's not what I mean.
This is my fault.
I talked you into taking
Topa with us.
You knew it was a risk,
and I pushed you.
You cannot blame yourself
for what has happened.
Should've just minded
my own goddamn business.
I have never told you how much
I value your presence
in Topa's life.
It has been difficult for me
since Klyden left us...
and I do not believe
I would have succeeded
without your assistance.
You are...
a part of our family.
Topa is very special to me.
And, you to us.
(medical device beeps)
The ligament has healed.
All right.
Let's go get her.
(grunts)
Please stop!
I don't know anything!
You have been brave, Topa.
Foolish, but brave.
Do you know what this is?
It's a Krill instrument
of persuasion.
I spent many years trying
to acquire one.
Depending on the setting,
it can cause either
minor discomfort,
or unbearable agony.
And, in extreme cases,
permanent neurological damage.
(electronic sparking)
Please!
The name.
While your mind still functions.
(dramatic music playing)
-(Topa shrieking)
-(baton sparking)
The name!
(electronics whirring)
Bortus! Biosigns.
Female.
This way.
(shrieking)
No!
Please! Please, I'll tell you!
I am listening.
She has given the name.
And the encryption frequencies?
Yes. We are finished here.
Kill her.
Dump her body in Sha'var Canyon.
Touch her and you're dead!
Papa!
It is all right, Topa.
We are here.
You are safe.
(sobbing)
Did you do this to her?
Come on, we gotta get her
back to the shuttle.
Bortus!
Commander, stand down!
(screams)
Stand down, that's
an order, now!
Let's go.
(gasping)
Launch thrusters are still down.
Topa. You will need to hold on.
Here we go.
We are taking fire!
They're hitting us from above!
I can't gain altitude!
We can't outrun 'em,
we're going to have to engage.
Those are O'kta-Class fighters.
Highly maneuverable,
but they have a weakness.
Drop behind them
and target their exhaust ports.
(groans)
We're clear!
We have no intention
of cooperating
with this fraudulent
and reckless investigation!
The Council has made
its decision.
We reject that decision.
I'm afraid that's
not how it works.
With respect, Ambassador,
every member of the Union
must abide by its rulings.
AMBASSADOR RECHIK:
Respect?
Since when has any member
of this Council
shown us the slightest respect?
You chastise and demean
our culture
at every opportunity!
This is not a referendum
on your culture.
We're simply trying
to find a missing child.
Then investigate
your Moclan female accomplice!
She was the last one
to see the girl!
How do we know she's telling the
truth about her disappearance?
There is the physical evidence.
It proves nothing!
You are grasping for reasons
to blame Moclus!
Ambassador, look at
the circumstances.
If our positions were reversed,
you'd be demanding answers too.
These are difficult times
for the Union, Senator.
Do you really want to provoke
your most important ally?
Think of the consequences.
Could the Union survive
a full-scale Kaylon attack
if its weapons supply chain
was suddenly interrupted?
(scoffs)
Do you have something
to say, human?
Look, I know I'm not
supposed to talk here,
and I'm probably gonna get
court-martialed,
but somebody's gotta
call out these assholes!
-Gordon, don't--
-Every time they cross a line,
we let it go because
we're scared
to fight the Kaylon
without them!
And, every time we compromise,
they still act like they're
the ones gettin' the shaft!
That's enough, Lieutenant!
You treat people like garbage,
and then when you
get called on it,
you bitch and you moan
that we're not
respecting your "beliefs"!
-Well, screw you and your--
-Gordon!
Sorry.
It is time to put an
end to this farce.
We will address the assembly.
I have conferred with
my government.
And, we will no longer
abide by the terms
of our previous agreement.
Heveena's illegal actions
have annulled all restrictions.
Furthermore, we demand
a formal apology
by this Council for allowing
this travesty
in the first place.
(angry murmuring)
You proposed this compromise,
Admiral Halsey.
We have abided by it.
Heveena has not.
If anyone in this chamber
can credibly dispute the
legality of our position,
let him stand now!
(angry murmuring)
(doors clang open)
Oh, my god.
We rescued Topa from
a secret military installation
in the Zonari System.
It's a Moclan black site.
She was taken there
and tortured for information.
There is no such place!
We have scans of the
entire facility, Ambassador.
She refused medical treatment
so that everyone here
could see for themselves
what the Moclans did to her.
(muted gasping)
My daughter is fortunate
to be alive.
They planned to murder her.
Members of this Union
planned to kill my child.
You are liars.
And, you are butchers.
And, you must answer
for your crimes!
(seats clatter)
Here. Coffee.
Thanks.
Hm?
90-proof blend?
-I thought you might need it.
-You're the best.
Well, just don't breathe
on the Admirals.
Bortus...
I am truly sorry.
I do not expect you
to forgive me.
That is a reasonable
expectation.
The Council has taken
a provisional vote.
It was unanimous.
Moclus has been expelled
from the Union.
(sighs)
So, what's next?
The vote still has to
be ratified, but...
when it is, it'll be
a messy divorce.
Ship deployments, crew
reassignments,
shared military assets,
and at least a dozen
battle groups
under joint command.
A lot of ties to sever.
And, it goes without saying
this will be a major blow
to our defensive posture.
We're now much more vulnerable
to the Kaylon.
What about the colony?
The Union has voted
to recognize it
as a sovereign state,
and to place it under
our protection.
Effective immediately.
(contemplative music playing)
Physically she's going
to be fine,
but she's been through
a terrible trauma,
especially for someone so young.
She'll need counseling.
I understand.
When may I take her home?
I want to run a few more tests,
and then she's all yours.
Commander...
There's someone here to see you.
Klyden...
When the Captain told
me what happened,
I boarded the first transport
I could find.
May I speak with her?
Papa...
Lie still, Topa.
You need to rest.
Papa...
you came back.
How are you feeling?
Better now that you are here.
I missed you.
I missed you too.
Topa.
The last time I saw you,
I said some very hurtful things.
I regret my words.
I understand, Papa.
It's okay.
No.
It is not.
You...
were almost lost.
Because of people who
believed as I did.
I...
I... I thought I hated you.
But, even then, I never
wished you harm.
I simply...
did not know how to
live with you.
(sobbing): I allowed a lifetime
of prejudice
to cloud my judgment.
That must change.
I must change.
I want you to know
that I accept you, Topa,
exactly as you are.
And, I am proud...
to call you my daughter.
I love you, Papa.
I love you too.
(contemplative music playing)
How is your teepok?
It's as delicious as I remember.
I am pleased.
I will prepare it for you
whenever you like.
(door chimes)
Come in.
Hey. Sorry to interrupt.
Just wanted to let you know
we'll be leaving orbit soon.
And, I also wanted to say...
welcome back, Klyden.
Thank you, Commander.
I take it you've
decided to stay?
We have renounced
our Moclan citizenship.
Our home is here, now.
Bortus has told me
of your heroic actions.
Thank you for saving
my daughter's life.
Bortus and I make
a pretty good team.
Well, I'll let you get
back to your meal.
Commander.
Would you like to have
dinner with us?
He made teepok soup.
It's spicy.
I do like spicy.
Then, please.
Sit with us.
(tranquil music rising)
(theme song playing)
Captioned by Point.360